# 🛡️ Our Product

This section gives you information on how to connect storage providers and consumers seamlessly through blockchain-based orchestrators. The platform ensures transparency, trust, and efficiency in all transactions by leveraging decentralized smart contracts. Storage providers offer their capacity, registered and certified on the Flashback platform, to meet predefined quality standards. Consumers, such as businesses or individuals, can interact with these providers indirectly through orchestrators, which handle storage allocation, service-level agreements (SLAs), and payments. This decentralized approach enhances discoverability, trust, and accountability, fostering a reliable and efficient storage environment.

At the network's core lies the **Orchestrator Smart Contract**, which acts as the trustless coordinator for the ecosystem. The orchestrator ensures SLA compliance, tracks quality-of-service (QoS) metrics, manages payments, and enforces penalties for non-compliance. The platform also integrates advanced tokenomics through its native token, FLASH, facilitating payments, staking, and governance. Supported by oracles, the network bridges on-chain and off-chain data for real-time insights, while the OpenAPI module connects consumers and providers, enabling seamless interactions. These components create a scalable, transparent storage infrastructure optimized for modern decentralized needs.

## Section Table

<table><thead><tr><th width="227">Section</th><th>Summary</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="our-network/high-level-layers.md"><strong>High-Level Layers</strong></a></td><td><em>An introduction of the different layers composing the network.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="our-network/general-workflow.md"><strong>General Workflow</strong></a></td><td><em>The general workflow of Fashback integrates different components to guarantee the network's features.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="our-network/orchestrator-smart-contract.md"><strong>Orchestrator Smart Contract</strong></a></td><td><em>An overview of the smart contract called orchestrator, which manages the on-chain information related to our functions.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="our-network/the-platform.md"><strong>The Platform</strong></a></td><td><em>Learn about the interaction of the OpenAPI Platform with the network.</em></td></tr></tbody></table>

