# Solution

The **lack of trust** in data storage leads to 93% of organizations using a multi-cloud strategy and 87% combining public and private clouds in hybrid environments.\
\
While the problem is simple, the solution may be complex in the Cloud industry. Nonetheless, our solution offers three key features to companies that solve these problems:

* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Quality-based profitability**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> The storage infrastructure providers are the cornerstone of a DePIN solution. Unfortunately, many projects prefer developing a solution related to a marketing strategy rather than meeting operators' demands. They develop modular blockchain solutions instead of ensuring the storage infrastructure providers benefit from the whole ecosystem. Flashback's storage provider will also be a node to support the best security and decentralization and an on-chain storage marketplace where every node will activate their contribution to the storage and define their operating fees. The protocol will incentivize the quality of services to guarantee the profitability of good storage providers.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Decentralized multi-cloud**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> The Web3 service running with a DePIN solution must benefit from an optimal quality of storage providers. The competitors focus on growing the storage capacity provided to the network but create an unbalanced reward model. The storage providers must optimize their data availability; the only approach is incentivizing it and slashing the bad actors. Flashback allows storage providers to collect operating fees if one of its validators is the best answer to data requests from a network user's file.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Storage flexibility and interoperability**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> Data storage must be easily integrated into traditional services or dApps. However, these projects support a unique protocol, IPFS, which reduces the freedom of developers and businesses to stick with their clients' specifications. Flashback is a unique solution that is protocol-agnostic for file transfers with its network and offers off-chain operations to support the governance and compliance required by regional laws.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Storage flexibility and interoperability**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> Data storage must be easily integrated into traditional services or dApps. However, these projects support a unique protocol, IPFS, which reduces the freedom of developers and businesses to stick with their clients' specifications. Flashback is a unique solution that is protocol-agnostic for file transfers with its network and offers off-chain operations to support the governance and compliance required by regional laws.

##
