# Basics

This section serves as the foundation for understanding Flashback, a Layer-1 blockchain that builds on Ethereum’s proven architecture while adding its own innovative twists. Whether you're new to blockchain technology or a seasoned developer, this section will provide you with essential knowledge about how the Flashback network operates at its core.

<table><thead><tr><th width="227">Section</th><th>Summary</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="accounts.md"><strong>Externally-Owned Accounts (EOA)</strong></a></td><td><em>It is the first option for interacting with the blockchain. Users manage EOAs, which allow them to initiate transactions.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="smart-contracts.md"><strong>Smart Contracts</strong></a></td><td><em>Introduced by Vitalik while He was working with Bitcoin core, smart contracts became an obvious element of future applications.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="smart-contracts-1.md"><strong>Composability</strong></a></td><td><em>Smart contract opens the gates to composability: The capacity to reuse existing materials and to code without limitations.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="ethereum-virtual-machine.md"><strong>Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)</strong></a></td><td><em>Usually shortened as EVM, this concept shapes Ethereum's functions as a machine state beyond being only a blockchain.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="nodes-and-clients.md"><strong>Network Protocol Clients</strong></a></td><td><em>An implementation of Ethereum that verifies data against the protocol rules and keeps the network secure. A node has to run two clients: a consensus client and an execution client.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="nodes-and-clients-1.md"><strong>Nodes</strong></a></td><td><em>Ethereum comprehends different granularity of blockchain nodes according to their job in the network.</em> </td></tr><tr><td><a href="transactions.md"><strong>Gas Fees</strong></a></td><td><em>An elementary account unit that enables the transaction and smart contract deployment in Ethereum.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="transactions-1.md"><strong>Transactions</strong></a></td><td><em>Ethereum is a decentralized ledger with operations between users called transactions.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="blocks.md"><strong>Blocks</strong></a></td><td><em>This element is a blockchain foundation that gathers all the transactions and smart contract operations.</em></td></tr></tbody></table>

***

The Ethereum protocol presents many features that shape the development of many decentralized applications and services. Let's explore these and give you the best understanding of what is Ethereum.
