# Levels of Decentralization

While many consider this aspect sufficient, the decentralization in DePIN is not always the same, resulting in different governance or security concerns for their users. Different levels of DePIN technologies can be compared to self-driving levels:

* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Level 1**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> Service providers can freely deploy on top of the network. The service can freely interact and manage its business model according to the network parameters. Here, no single third party can censor a service's network use.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Level 2**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> The physical infrastructure providers can freely contribute to the network. The provider can create a blockchain node and provide its infrastructure to the network based on the open-access documentation. The provider receives its income from the network according to specified rules coded in the network. No third party controls the income provided to the provider or limits access to the network.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Level 3**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> The network uses a cryptography-proof-based permissionless consensus mechanism to certify and reward the honest workload related to its purpose (cloud storage, cloud computing, etc.). The proof consensus is independent of human action or pseudo-automation and based on verifiable cryptographic evidence.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Level 4**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> The network has a permissionless network economy model. The reward mechanism of infrastructure nodes is wholly independent of human action or pseudo-automation (software-defined reward scheme instead of network consensus validation). The block-based reward is irregular and dependent on the number of validators. The infrastructure provider defines the contract-based reward (fees for using the network node). There is no liquidity pool to reward network nodes, and no entity (company or DAO) receives a network fee based on its use.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Level 5**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> No single third party controls the network's evolution. No third party can decide the network's features and how they should evolve. Most network participants can only make changes with pure on-chain proposals. The network consensus only improves the code (eliminating all the code ownerships).
