# DePIN-based Cloud Storage

Centralizing and consolidating power among these major companies has led to many concerns regarding data privacy, legal compliance, and data governance, particularly in Europe. Furthermore, the escalating number of data breaches each year demonstrates the growing vulnerability in centralized solutions, reflecting increasing interest among hackers. Moreover, centralized solutions can potentially subject data to foreign censorship, compromise privacy by sharing foreign customers' data, or increase storage fees, which doubled from 2018 to 2023. You can visit this website (see [here](https://www.veritas.com/fr/fr/resources/dark-data#%7B%22sliderValue%22%3A0%2C%22companyName%22%3A%22%22%2C%22selectedCountry%22%3A%22USA%22%7D)) to visualize companies' expenses in data storage.

The concept of these solutions is based on a blockchain in a peer-to-peer network, which drives a decentralized economy model supported by consensus and an ensemble of rules. This philosophy comes from Satoshi with Bitcoin, but these DePIN solutions focus on cloud storage problems. It brings multiple advantages compared to centralized solutions:

* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Lower cybersecurity costs**</mark><mark style="color:yellow;">:</mark> The existing blockchain brings more security by having a public, transparent, and freely auditable code and infrastructure, reducing the cybersecurity costs implied today in centralized solutions.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Permissionless and privacy:**</mark> The decentralization guarantees that an organization can't censor the data storage itself. An individual or a company can interact with the network protocols without requiring the authorization of a central entity or a service provider. Anyone can decide to become a storage provider by offering its storage hardware to the network.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">**Pricing competitiveness:**</mark> Individuals or service providers using the network can decide to manage their storage by selecting the protocols and nodes they want to interact with. It minimizes the risk of data losses, and users can play with the network node pricing to optimize their profitability. This stimulates the competitiveness between storage providers always to find the best hardware setup and installation.

The first development of DePIN-based cloud storage started in 2014 with the projects of STORJ and Filecoin. Today, we can count a dozen projects providing DePIN cloud storage. The solutions present numerous challenges that drastically restrain their usage (see future article). Many DePINs reached the level 2, but projects like Filecoin or Sia reached the level 3. However, a project like Filecoin decided to create an additional subsystem called Filecoin Plus, a level-1 DePIN, because the miners can’t integrate this subsystem without central permission.

